README.md, before:

# CSCI39548-WebDev-Spring22
Course page for Practical Web Dev Spring 2022

----------
## Class 1 (1/31, 2/2)
**Course Overview:**
- Course syllabus and logistics
- Join Slack 
- *Note: The above information is available on Blackboard.*

**Full-Stack Web Development:**
- Intro to full-stack web development ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ln0hwk2dfEsyjN_F-Xw8KPiooRGvWZ_1/view?usp=sharing))

**Git and GitHub:**
- Intro to Git and GitHub ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/120xBezoPl6-ytqTnA8mlnvyopXxOri5D/view?usp=sharing))
- Guide on how to set up SSH keys for Git and GitHub ([document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rQAKTI8Ocg8xSTGhmCVaRjwQdXbrlo6C/view?usp=sharing))
- [Sign up for GitHub](https://github.com)
- [Download and Install Git](https://git-scm.com)
- [Check for SSH Keys](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/checking-for-existing-ssh-keys) and [Generate SSH Keys](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)

- [Add SSH Key to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account)
- [Set up Git for GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/set-up-git)
- [Connect to GitHub via SSH](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/about-ssh)
- [Deploy Repository to GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)
- [Feature Branch Workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow)

**Demo:**
- Create a simple website GitHub repository, implement Git version control, 
 and deploy repository to GitHub Pages ([demo-website](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/demo-website))
- Work with feature branch workflow ([feature-website](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/feature-website))

**Resources:**
- [Git Textbook](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
- [Video: Git Tutorial 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVsySz-h9r4&t=443s&ab_channel=CoreySchafer)
- [Video: Git Tutorial 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SWYqp7iY_Tc&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)
- [Simple Git Guide](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
- [HTML Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp)
- [CSS Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp)

----------
## Class 2 (2/7, 2/9)
**Intro to Assignment 1:**
- ### [Assignment 1 - Zoo](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_sdgw_fjEVF8d5oPL5nwkbf6JC12rs7c/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=103231663234242419974&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- **[Starter code for Assignment 1](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/zoo-starter-code)**

**Demo:**
- Starter website for Assignment 1 ([zoo-starter-code](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/zoo-starter-code))

**Work on Assignment 1 - Zoo**

----------
## Class 3 (2/14, 2/16)
**JavaScript:**
- Intro to JavaScript ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tmhqP-oqxQsd0PkmqWLZyasclURiVwVu/view?usp=sharing))
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 3: Functions](http://eloquentjavascript.net/03_functions.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 4: Objects and Arrays](http://eloquentjavascript.net/04_data.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 5: Higher Order Functions](http://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html)

**Node.js:**
- [Install Node.js via Package Manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/) or [Install Node.js via Download](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

**Resources:**
- [Video: JS Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)

**Watch for next class:**
- [Intro to the DOM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-0nPnSvbX8)
- [Traversing the DOM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LWQNnVAMh4)
- [DOM Events](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QE1YQnhntgw)

----------
## Class 4 (2/23, 2/28)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 1 - Zoo is due on Thursday, 2/24, at 11:59 PM.

**JavaScript and Node.js**
- *Continue:* JavaScript and Node.js

**Intro to Assignment 2:**
- ### [**Assignment 2 - JavaScript Methods**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ckjvIJC2m3StDUrcPe0iuZzyQ35sMb9s/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=103231663234242419974&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- **[Starter code for Assignment 2 (templates)](https://gist.github.com/johnnylaicode/e4d58435142a82ae22b6c8e58a03a953)**

**Work on Assignment 2 - JavaScript Methods**

----------
## Class 5 (3/2, 3/7)
**DOM:**
- [MDN: Intro to the DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)

**Demo:**
- Manipulate DOM in JavaScript ([demo code for DOM example](https://gist.github.com/johnnylaicode/c8689ffee1f5fe516dec769d9bda1581))

**Supplemental materials:**
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 13: JavaScript and the Browser](http://eloquentjavascript.net/13_browser.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 14: The Document Object Model](http://eloquentjavascript.net/14_dom.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 15: Handling Events](http://eloquentjavascript.net/15_event.html)

**Intro to Assignment 3:**
- ### [Assignment 3 - Grid Maker](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q7hkmY4ZOh567mkvz-c-R5aElXkI5Lx1/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=103231663234242419974&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- **[Starter code for Assignment 3](https://gist.github.com/johnnylaicode/8af8f444356efa00f6367d49500c95f1)**

**Watch for next class: required videos (watch all in the series)**
- [Intro to React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FRjlF74_EZk&list=PLruo2gSoqleiMVEIqmvZkIpFEN_TPt0hR)

----------
## Class 6 (3/9, 3/14)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 2 - JavaScript Methods is due on Tuesday, 3/15, at 11:59 PM.
**React:**
- [React Docs: Main Concepts](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html)

**Extra practice:**
- [React tutorial: Intro to React (building a Tic-Tac-Toe game)](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html)
- [React tutorial: Getting Started with React](https://sabe.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-react)

**Supplemental materials:**
- [Video: React JS Crash Course 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w7ejDZ8SWv8&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)
- [React styling conventions](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/react)

**Watch for next class: required video**
- [Video: Async JS Crash Course - Callbacks, Promises, Async Await](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PoRJizFvM7s&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)

----------
## Class 7 (3/16, 3/21)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 3 - Grid Maker is due on Tuesday, 3/22, at 11:59 PM.
**React, Asynchronous Programming, and APIs:**
- [Promises, async/await, asynchronous JavaScript](https://javascript.info/async)

**Chrome extensions used in class:**
- [JSON Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/json-viewer/gbmdgpbipfallnflgajpaliibnhdgobh)
- [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en)

**Supplemental materials:**
- [In-depth article on async/await](https://blog.bitsrc.io/understanding-javascript-async-and-await-with-examples-a010b03926ea)
- [Video: async/await](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vn3tm0quoqE&t=170s)
- [Eloquent JavaScript: Asynchronous Programming](https://eloquentjavascript.net/11_async.html)
- [MDN: Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)
- [MDN: Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
- [Axios tutorial](http://zetcode.com/javascript/axios/)
- [Video: Axios Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6LyagkoRWYA)
- [Video: HTTP Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYM2zFP3Zn0)

----------
## Class 8 (3/23, 3/28)
**React Router:**

**Intro to Assignment 4:**

**Recommended materials for next class:**
- Redux: comprehensive tutorial by Dan Abramov, the creator of Redux ([Part 1](https://egghead.io/courses/fundamentals-of-redux-course-from-dan-abramov-bd5cc867)) ([Part 2](https://egghead.io/courses/building-react-applications-with-idiomatic-redux))
- [Article](https://medium.com/fullstack-academy/thunks-in-redux-the-basics-85e538a3fe60) on Thunks in Redux
- [Coding example](https://learn.co/lessons/redux-thunk-readme) using Thunks

**Work on Assignment 4 - Bank of React**

----------
## Class 9 (3/30, 4/4)
**Redux**
- Managing state in React applications with Redux

**Practice Redux and Thunk**

----------
## Class 10 (4/6, 4/11)
**Redux**
-  *Continue:* Redux

**Intro to Final Project:**
- [What's a CRUD application?](https://medium.com/geekculture/whats-a-crud-app-e5a29cce03b5)

----------
## Class 11 (4/13, 4/25)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 4 - Bank of React is due on Thursday, 4/14, at 11:59 PM.
**Express and Sequelize**
- Build back-end application using Express and Sequelize

**Supplemental materials:**
- [Tutorial: Setting up a simple Node application with Express/Sequelize](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bOHysWYMZM0&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)
- [Relational database concepts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NvrpuBAMddw)
- [Intro to Object-Relational Mapping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHQ-I7kr_SY)
- [psql commands](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/psql-commands/)
- [Sequelize documentation](https://sequelize.org/master/)

**Resources:**
- [Add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/github/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line)
- Downloads: [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) and [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)

----------
## Class 12 (4/27, 5/2)
**Express and Sequelize**
- *Continue:* Build back-end application using Express and Sequelize

**Work on Final Project - CRUD Application**

----------
## Class 13 (5/4, 5/9)
**Review for Course Assessment**

**Work on Final Project - CRUD Application**

----------
## Class 14 (5/11, 5/16)
### *Reminder:* Final Project - CRUD Application is due on Friday, 5/20, at 11:59 PM.
**Course Assessment (optional extra credit)**
- Complete the optional Course Assessment on Wednesday, 5/11. 

**Work on Final Project - CRUD Application**
- Final Project is due on Friday, 5/20, at 11:59 PM.

Commit message:

Added links to Git reference manual, command list, and cheat sheet

README.md, after:

# CSCI39548-WebDev-Spring22
Course page for Practical Web Dev Spring 2022

----------
## Class 1 (1/31, 2/2)
**Course Overview:**
- Course syllabus and logistics
- Join Slack 
- *Note: The above information is available on Blackboard.*

**Full-Stack Web Development:**
- Intro to full-stack web development ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ln0hwk2dfEsyjN_F-Xw8KPiooRGvWZ_1/view?usp=sharing))

**Git and GitHub:**
- Intro to Git and GitHub ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/120xBezoPl6-ytqTnA8mlnvyopXxOri5D/view?usp=sharing))
- Guide on how to set up SSH keys for Git and GitHub ([document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rQAKTI8Ocg8xSTGhmCVaRjwQdXbrlo6C/view?usp=sharing))
- [Sign up for GitHub](https://github.com)
- [Download and Install Git](https://git-scm.com)
- [Check for SSH Keys](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/checking-for-existing-ssh-keys) and [Generate SSH Keys](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)

- [Add SSH Key to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account)
- [Set up Git for GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/set-up-git)
- [Connect to GitHub via SSH](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/about-ssh)
- [Deploy Repository to GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)
- [Feature Branch Workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow)

**Demo:**
- Create a simple website GitHub repository, implement Git version control, 
 and deploy repository to GitHub Pages ([demo-website](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/demo-website))
- Work with feature branch workflow ([feature-website](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/feature-website))

**Resources:**
- [Git Textbook](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
- [Git Reference Manual](https://git-scm.com/docs/) and [Complete List of Git Commands](https://git-scm.com/docs/git#_git_commands) 
- [Git Cheat Sheet](https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet/)
- [Video: Git Tutorial 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVsySz-h9r4&t=443s&ab_channel=CoreySchafer)
- [Video: Git Tutorial 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SWYqp7iY_Tc&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)
- [Simple Git Guide](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
- [HTML Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp)
- [CSS Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp)

----------
## Class 2 (2/7, 2/9)
**Intro to Assignment 1:**
- ### [Assignment 1 - Zoo](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_sdgw_fjEVF8d5oPL5nwkbf6JC12rs7c/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=103231663234242419974&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- **[Starter code for Assignment 1](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/zoo-starter-code)**

**Demo:**
- Starter website for Assignment 1 ([zoo-starter-code](https://github.com/johnnylaicode/zoo-starter-code))

**Work on Assignment 1 - Zoo**

----------
## Class 3 (2/14, 2/16)
**JavaScript:**
- Intro to JavaScript ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tmhqP-oqxQsd0PkmqWLZyasclURiVwVu/view?usp=sharing))
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 3: Functions](http://eloquentjavascript.net/03_functions.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 4: Objects and Arrays](http://eloquentjavascript.net/04_data.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 5: Higher Order Functions](http://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html)

**Node.js:**
- [Install Node.js via Package Manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/) or [Install Node.js via Download](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

**Resources:**
- [Video: JS Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)

**Watch for next class:**
- [Intro to the DOM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-0nPnSvbX8)
- [Traversing the DOM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LWQNnVAMh4)
- [DOM Events](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QE1YQnhntgw)

----------
## Class 4 (2/23, 2/28)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 1 - Zoo is due on Thursday, 2/24, at 11:59 PM.

**JavaScript and Node.js**
- *Continue:* JavaScript and Node.js

**Intro to Assignment 2:**
- ### [**Assignment 2 - JavaScript Methods**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ckjvIJC2m3StDUrcPe0iuZzyQ35sMb9s/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=103231663234242419974&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- **[Starter code for Assignment 2 (templates)](https://gist.github.com/johnnylaicode/e4d58435142a82ae22b6c8e58a03a953)**

**Work on Assignment 2 - JavaScript Methods**

----------
## Class 5 (3/2, 3/7)
**DOM:**
- [MDN: Intro to the DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)

**Demo:**
- Manipulate DOM in JavaScript ([demo code for DOM example](https://gist.github.com/johnnylaicode/c8689ffee1f5fe516dec769d9bda1581))

**Supplemental materials:**
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 13: JavaScript and the Browser](http://eloquentjavascript.net/13_browser.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 14: The Document Object Model](http://eloquentjavascript.net/14_dom.html)
- [Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 15: Handling Events](http://eloquentjavascript.net/15_event.html)

**Intro to Assignment 3:**
- ### [Assignment 3 - Grid Maker](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q7hkmY4ZOh567mkvz-c-R5aElXkI5Lx1/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=103231663234242419974&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- **[Starter code for Assignment 3](https://gist.github.com/johnnylaicode/8af8f444356efa00f6367d49500c95f1)**

**Watch for next class: required videos (watch all in the series)**
- [Intro to React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FRjlF74_EZk&list=PLruo2gSoqleiMVEIqmvZkIpFEN_TPt0hR)

----------
## Class 6 (3/9, 3/14)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 2 - JavaScript Methods is due on Tuesday, 3/15, at 11:59 PM.
**React:**
- [React Docs: Main Concepts](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html)

**Extra practice:**
- [React tutorial: Intro to React (building a Tic-Tac-Toe game)](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html)
- [React tutorial: Getting Started with React](https://sabe.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-react)

**Supplemental materials:**
- [Video: React JS Crash Course 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w7ejDZ8SWv8&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)
- [React styling conventions](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/react)

**Watch for next class: required video**
- [Video: Async JS Crash Course - Callbacks, Promises, Async Await](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PoRJizFvM7s&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)

----------
## Class 7 (3/16, 3/21)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 3 - Grid Maker is due on Tuesday, 3/22, at 11:59 PM.
**React, Asynchronous Programming, and APIs:**
- [Promises, async/await, asynchronous JavaScript](https://javascript.info/async)

**Chrome extensions used in class:**
- [JSON Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/json-viewer/gbmdgpbipfallnflgajpaliibnhdgobh)
- [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en)

**Supplemental materials:**
- [In-depth article on async/await](https://blog.bitsrc.io/understanding-javascript-async-and-await-with-examples-a010b03926ea)
- [Video: async/await](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vn3tm0quoqE&t=170s)
- [Eloquent JavaScript: Asynchronous Programming](https://eloquentjavascript.net/11_async.html)
- [MDN: Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)
- [MDN: Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
- [Axios tutorial](http://zetcode.com/javascript/axios/)
- [Video: Axios Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6LyagkoRWYA)
- [Video: HTTP Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYM2zFP3Zn0)

----------
## Class 8 (3/23, 3/28)
**React Router:**

**Intro to Assignment 4:**

**Recommended materials for next class:**
- Redux: comprehensive tutorial by Dan Abramov, the creator of Redux ([Part 1](https://egghead.io/courses/fundamentals-of-redux-course-from-dan-abramov-bd5cc867)) ([Part 2](https://egghead.io/courses/building-react-applications-with-idiomatic-redux))
- [Article](https://medium.com/fullstack-academy/thunks-in-redux-the-basics-85e538a3fe60) on Thunks in Redux
- [Coding example](https://learn.co/lessons/redux-thunk-readme) using Thunks

**Work on Assignment 4 - Bank of React**

----------
## Class 9 (3/30, 4/4)
**Redux**
- Managing state in React applications with Redux

**Practice Redux and Thunk**

----------
## Class 10 (4/6, 4/11)
**Redux**
-  *Continue:* Redux

**Intro to Final Project:**
- [What's a CRUD application?](https://medium.com/geekculture/whats-a-crud-app-e5a29cce03b5)

----------
## Class 11 (4/13, 4/25)
### *Reminder:* Assignment 4 - Bank of React is due on Thursday, 4/14, at 11:59 PM.
**Express and Sequelize**
- Build back-end application using Express and Sequelize

**Supplemental materials:**
- [Tutorial: Setting up a simple Node application with Express/Sequelize](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bOHysWYMZM0&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)
- [Relational database concepts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NvrpuBAMddw)
- [Intro to Object-Relational Mapping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHQ-I7kr_SY)
- [psql commands](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/psql-commands/)
- [Sequelize documentation](https://sequelize.org/master/)

**Resources:**
- [Add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/github/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line)
- Downloads: [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) and [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)

----------
## Class 12 (4/27, 5/2)
**Express and Sequelize**
- *Continue:* Build back-end application using Express and Sequelize

**Work on Final Project - CRUD Application**

----------
## Class 13 (5/4, 5/9)
**Review for Course Assessment**

**Work on Final Project - CRUD Application**

----------
## Class 14 (5/11, 5/16)
### *Reminder:* Final Project - CRUD Application is due on Friday, 5/20, at 11:59 PM.
**Course Assessment (optional extra credit)**
- Complete the optional Course Assessment on Wednesday, 5/11. 

**Work on Final Project - CRUD Application**
- Final Project is due on Friday, 5/20, at 11:59 PM.
